[core] Adds ActorUnavailableError. (#44212)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-core/fault_tolerance/actors.rst

If ``max_restarts`` is set, you can also allow Ray to automatically restart the actor by passing ``no_restart=False`` to ``ray.kill``.

Unavailable actors
----------------------

> When an actor can't accept method calls, a ``ray.get`` on the method's returned return object reference may raise

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an actor can't accept method calls, a ``ray.get`` on the method's returned object reference may raise
```

``ActorUnavailableError``. This exception indicates the actor isn't accessible at the
moment, but may recover after waiting and retrying. Typical cases include:

> - The actor is restarting. For example, it's waiting for resources or running the class constructor during the restart.

Reviewer 2: Does actor restarting use up task retries? If yes, is that new behavior? I think this behavior would be a bit odd, I would've expected task retries to get queued until the actor is done restarting.

If this is not the behavior, I think we can explain that case a bit more, i.e. whether retries would get consumed or not.

Author: Yes, actor restarting uses task retries. This is because when a task gets a ActorUnavailableError, that task is already failed, so a retry must be consumed in order to have a second attempt. If we don't eat a task retry count, we may end found task retry count < number of tasks issued, which could be weird.

The behavior is already existing in https://github.com/ray-project/ray/issues/22818 (fast fail tasks when actor restarting). I can add a line in the doc about how this eats retries.

> - The actor is restarting. For example, it's waiting for resources or running the class constructor in the restarting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The actor is restarting. For example, it's waiting for resources or running the class constructor during the restart.
```

> - The actor is experiencing transient network issues, like connection breaks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The actor is experiencing transient network issues, like connection outages.
```

> - The actor is dead but the death hasn't yet been reported to the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The actor is dead, but the death hasn't yet been reported to the system.
```

Actor method calls are at-most-once execution. When a ``ray.get()`` call raises the ``ActorUnavailableError`` exception, there's no guarantee on
whether the actor executed the task or not. If the method has side effects, they may or may not
be observable. Ray does guarantee that the method won't be executed twice, unless the actor or the method is configured with retries, as described in the next section.

The actor may or may not recover in the next calls. Those subsequent calls
may raise ``ActorDiedError`` if the actor is confirmed dead, ``ActorUnavailableError`` if it's
still unreachable, or return values normally if the actor recovered.

As a best practice, if the caller gets the ``ActorUnavailableError`` error, it should
"quarantine" the actor and stop sending traffic to the actor. It can then periodically ping

> the actor until it raises ``ActorDiedError`` or returns OK.

Reviewer 2: Nice.

- The actor is restarting. For example, it's waiting for resources or running the class constructor during the restart.
- The actor is experiencing transient network issues, like connection outages.
- The actor is dead, but the death hasn't yet been reported to the system.

Actor method calls are at-most-once execution. When a ``ray.get()`` call raises the ``ActorUnavailableError`` exception, there's no guarantee on
whether the actor executed the task or not. If the method has side effects, they may or may not
be observable. Ray does guarantee that the method won't be executed twice, unless the actor or the method is configured with retries, as described in the next section.

The actor may or may not recover in the next calls. Those subsequent calls
may raise ``ActorDiedError`` if the actor is confirmed dead, ``ActorUnavailableError`` if it's
still unreachable, or return values normally if the actor recovered.

As a best practice, if the caller gets the ``ActorUnavailableError`` error, it should
"quarantine" the actor and stop sending traffic to the actor. It can then periodically ping
the actor until it raises ``ActorDiedError`` or returns OK.

> If a task has ``max_task_retries > 0`` and it received ``ActorUnavailableError``, Ray will retry the task up to ``max_task_retries`` times. If the actor is restarting in its constructor, Ray would fast-fail the task and retry it after ``RAY_task_retry_delay_ms``, consuming the retry counts, until the actor is ready to accept tasks. If the constructor take a long time to run, consider increasing ``max_task_retries`` or increase ``RAY_task_retry_delay_ms``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a task has ``max_task_retries > 0`` and it received ``ActorUnavailableError``, Ray will retry the task up to ``max_task_retries`` times. If the actor is restarting in its constructor, the task retry will fail, consuming one retry count. If there are still retries remaining, Ray will retry again after ``RAY_task_retry_delay_ms``, until all retries are consumed or the actor is ready to accept tasks. If the constructor takes a long time to run, consider increasing ``max_task_retries`` or increase ``RAY_task_retry_delay_ms``.
```

If ``max_restarts`` is set, you can also allow Ray to automatically restart the actor by passing ``no_restart=False`` to ``ray.kill``.

Unavailable Actors
----------------------

When an actor can't accept method calls,

> a method call or a `ray.get` on the method return object reference may raise

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a method call or a `ray.get` on the method's returned object reference may raise
```

> `ActorUnavailableError`. This exception indicates the actor isn't accessible for the

Reviewer 2: +1, we should not be raising the error on `.remote()`.

moment, but may recover after some wait and retry. Typical cases include:

> - The actor is starting, for example it's still running the class constructor.

Author: removed. I meant to say the ctor time cost in *re*starting.

- The actor is restarting, for example it's waiting for resources.
- The actor is experiencing transient network issues, for example connection breaks.
- The actor is dead but the local Raylet hasn't yet reported to the GCS.

When a `actor.method.remote()` or `ray.get()` call raises this exception, there is no guarantee on
whether the actor received the invocation or not. If the method has side effects, it may or may not
be observable after the actor recovered. However Ray do guarantee at-most-once, that a single invocation won't land on the actor twice, unless the actor or the method is configured with retries described in the next section.

> The actor may or may not recover in the next calls. Those subsequent calls

Reviewer 2: If the task has retries available and the retries happen while the actor is recovering, do the retried tasks get queued or do they fail with ActorUnavailableError?

If the latter, how do we know how to set max_retries?

Author: Added a unit test `test_task_retries`

may raise `RayActorError` if the actor is confirmed dead, `ActorUnavailableError` if it's
still unreachable, or return values normally if the actor recovered.

> Best practice on `ActorUnavailableError`: upon such error the control plane control plane

Reviewer 2: Agreed, control plane is not a common term. I would just use "caller". "production loads" is also a Serve-specific term, I believe.
